Doc: Add guide for accessing HTTP headers in MCP Server (#5414)
spring-projects/spring-ai: spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/mcp/mcp-server-boot-starter-docs.adoc

          enabled: true
----

> === Accessing HTTP Headers (Context Extraction)

Reviewer: 1. Please move the section right after "Simple Example"
2. Please rename "Adding data to McpTransportContext"

By default, the `McpTransportContext` is empty (`McpTransportContext.EMPTY`).
This is by design, to keep the MCP server transport-agnostic.

> If you need transport-specific metadata (for example, `Authorization` or tenant IDs) in your tools,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need transport-specific metadata (for example, HTTP headers, remote host, etc) in your tools,
```

configure a `TransportContextExtractor` on your transport provider.

For security reasons, prefer extracting only the required values (allowlist) rather than passing the full request
or all headers.

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public WebMvcStreamableServerTransportProvider transport() {
    return WebMvcStreamableServerTransportProvider.builder()
        .contextExtractor(serverRequest -> {
            String authorization = serverRequest.headers().getFirst(HttpHeaders.AUTHORIZATION);
            return McpTransportContext.create(Map.of("authorization", authorization));
        })
        .build();
}
----

Once configured, access the context via `McpSyncServerExchange` (or `McpAsyncServerExchange`) in your tool.

[source,java]
----
@McpTool

> public String accessProtectedResource(McpSyncServerExchange exchange) {

Reviewer: There's an issue here: it doesn't work with stateless servers, IIRC. In stateless servers, you'd inject the `McpTransportContext` directly.

Both stateless and streamable HTTP support `McpSyncRequestContext` (+ async), which has a `.transportContext()` method. Please rework the example using that (verify with a sample that it actually works, of course).
